---
title: "K6"
date: 2025-03-27T20:38:42-05:00
draft: false
---

**Load Testing.**  
A somewhat challenging subject for most QAs I’ve worked with. Usually, it’s ignored or done incorrectly due to a misunderstanding of what it actually means.

First, let’s clarify the difference between **Load Testing** and **Performance Testing** — they are *not* the same thing.

**Load Testing** – Literally overload your system to simulate peak and worst-case user influx scenarios. You could say that load testing is a subset of performance testing.

**Performance Testing** – Ensures your platform performs well under certain pre-determined loads. This is a much broader category.

I like to think of performance as an abstract idea: *What is performant for X given Y?* And those variables can only be defined by your organization.

---

We recently had an idea: what if we actually started load testing our startup app?

Thanks to **K6**, we discovered some cool things.

We found that we could handle about **3500 VUs** over a 30-second timespan, with **50 actual users** hitting a specific endpoint.

We leveraged K6 (which was super easy to set up) and used an existing **Grafana dashboard** to monitor **P99 latency, request failures, request success rates**, etc.

This small exercise gave us surprising insights:

- We're likely **over-provisioned**. Since we don’t actually hit 3500 users at peak, we might be able to scale down and save some money (awww yeah 💸).
- We uncovered that we might not be using the **most optimal Garbage Collection tool** in Java.

The fact that all this was exposed by a simple **Node app (~300 LOC)** is *wild*. The value we got in return was way more than expected.

---

While I get that load testing can feel daunting, it's 100% worth doing from time to time. We're now better positioned for the future because we understand our limits and tip-over points.

This was a small project that I pushed for at our company, and it taught me a few key lessons:

- Never underestimate what a simple test can expose.
- Setting up **Grafana** and **K6** with a **remote write endpoint** was easier than expected.

Here’s what we added to our `prometheus.yml` to make it work:

```yaml
remote_write:
  - url: "http://localhost:9090/api/v1/write"
    queue_config:
      capacity: 5000
      max_shards: 10
      min_shards: 1
      max_samples_per_send: 1000
    write_relabel_configs:
      - source_labels: [__name__]
        regex: ".*"
        action: keep
```
And we ran k6 scripts with: 
```
K6_PROMETHEUS_RW_SERVER_URL=http://localhost:9090/api/v1/write \
K6_PROMETHEUS_RW_USERNAME=USERNAME \
K6_PROMETHEUS_RW_PASSWORD=PASSWORD \
k6 run -o experimental-prometheus-rw script.js

```

2025-03-27T21:08:22-43-04:00